# Promotions API

This API lets you specify possible discounts. Of the promotions specified, The Travel Agent applies the eligible promotion or set of promotions that leads to the lowest price. Note that rate modifications should be applied before promotions.

### Request

```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Promotions Version="1.0" TimeStamp="2024-07-31T17:24:47+02:00" EchoToken="94a43783-1536-4abd-ed3a-7955daea3c76">
  <HotelPromotions HotelCode="HOTEL">
    <Promotion Id="6669d5099d18cbb9fb047ec0" Name="Free Nights">
      <Stacking Type="none"/>
      <BookingDates>
        <DateRange Start="2024-08-01" End="2024-08-31" DaysOfWeek="MTWHFSU"/>
      </BookingDates>
      <Discount>
        <FreeNights StayNights="4" DiscountNights="2" DiscountPercentage="50" NightSelection="cheapest" Repeats="true"/>
      </Discount>
    </Promotion>
  </HotelPromotions>
</Promotions>
```

### Ref Promotions

<table><thead><tr><th width="295">Element / @Attribute</th><th width="62"></th><th>Description / Format</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Promotions</td><td>1</td><td>Root element of the message</td></tr><tr><td>Promotions / @EchoToken</td><td>1</td><td>Unique identifier for this request.</td></tr><tr><td>Promotions / @Version</td><td>1</td><td>Current version is 1.0.</td></tr><tr><td>Promotions / @Timestamp</td><td>1</td><td>Time of the transaction in ISO 8601 format.</td></tr><tr><td>Promotions / HotelPromotions</td><td>0..n</td><td>Promotions for a property. Each promotion applies to a single property.</td></tr><tr><td>Promotions / HotelPromotions / @HotelCode</td><td>1</td><td>This is the code of the property whose availability is being updated.</td></tr><tr><td>Promotions / HotelPromotions / @Action</td><td>0..1</td><td><p>If specified, the value must be "overlay". When the value is "overlay", all stored promotions are deleted prior to storing the promotions specified in the current message.<br></p><p>If not specified, then each promotion specified in the current message is either:<br><br>* Added (if none of the stored promotions has the same id) <br><br>* Updated (if a stored promotion has the same id)</p><p></p><p>* Deleted (if a stored promotion has the same id and the value of the action attribute for the promotion specified in the current message is "delete")</p></td></tr><tr><td>Promotions / HotelPromotions / <a href="./#promotion">Promotion</a></td><td>0..n</td><td>A single promotion for a property. Note that if @Action="overlay" and a is not specified, all promotions for the property are deleted.</td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Promotion

<table><thead><tr><th width="296">Element / @Attribute</th><th width="65"></th><th>Description / Format</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>@Id</td><td>1</td><td>A unique identifier for the promotion. The maximum number of characters allowed is 40. Allowed characters are a-z, A-Z, 0-9, _ (underscore), - (dash), and . (period).</td></tr><tr><td>@Name</td><td>0..1</td><td>Name of the promotion. The maximum number of characters allowed is 120. Allowed characters are a-z, A-Z, 0-9, _ (underscore), - (dash), and . (period).</td></tr><tr><td>@Action</td><td>0..1</td><td><p>If specified, the value must be delete. If not specified and a promotion with the same id isn't stored, then this promotion is stored. Otherwise, if not specified and a promotion with the same id is stored, then the existing promotion is updated.</p><p></p><p>If delete is specified, the stored promotion with the same id is deleted. When using delete, don't include any child elements in Promotion. Also, delete is not allowed in conjunction with HotelPromotions action="overlay".</p></td></tr><tr><td>Stacking</td><td>0..1</td><td>Specifies how promotions can be combined. If not specified, the "type" is assumed to be base.</td></tr><tr><td>Stacking / @Type</td><td>0..1</td><td><p>Multiple promotions can be applied to a single rate depending on this setting:</p><p></p><p>any: Can be combined with any other promotion (except none), but the order in which the promotions should be applied is not guaranteed. </p><p></p><p>base: The best eligible base promotion is selected and applied first, before other promotions.</p><p></p><p>second: The best eligible second promotion is selected and applied after a base promotion (if applicable) and before any promotions. </p><p></p><p>none: Can not be combined with other promotions.</p><p></p><p>Of the allowed combinations, the set of promotions which yields the largest discount are applied to the rate.</p></td></tr><tr><td>RoomTypes</td><td>0..1</td><td>Container for a list of room types to which the promotion applies. The promotion is applied to each specified. If isn't specified, the promotion applies to all rooms.</td></tr><tr><td>RoomTypes / RoomType</td><td>1..n</td><td>Specifies a room type. A room type is defined in a element in a OTA_HotelAvailRQ (Property Data) message and is referenced using its value. (Its value is also referenced by the InvTypeCode attribute in OTA_HotelRateAmountNotifRQ messages.)</td></tr><tr><td>RoomTypes / RoomType / @Id</td><td>1</td><td>The unique identifier for the inventory (room type). This value maps to in a OTA_HotelAvailRQ (Property Data) message. </td></tr><tr><td>RatePlans</td><td>0..1</td><td>Container for a list of rate plans to which the promotion applies. If isn't specified, the promotion applies to all rate plans.</td></tr><tr><td>RatePlans / RatePlan</td><td>1..n</td><td>Specifies a rate plan. A rate plan is defined by a combination of package, rates, and availability, as defined in OTA_HotelAvailRQ (Property Data), OTA_HotelRateAmountNotifRQ, and OTA_HotelAvailNotifRQ messages.</td></tr><tr><td>RatePlans / RatePlan / @Id</td><td>1</td><td>The unique identifier for the rate plan. This value maps to the RatePlanCode value in in a OTA_HotelAvailRQ (Property Data) message, and in the RatePlanCode attribute in in both &#x3C;OTA_HotelRateAmountNotifRQ> and &#x3C;OTA_HotelAvailNotifRQ> messages.</td></tr><tr><td>BookingDates</td><td>0..1</td><td>A container for one or more ranges that define when booking must occur in order for the promotion to be applied.</td></tr><tr><td>BookingDates / <a href="./#daterange">DateRange</a></td><td>1..n</td><td>A range specifying when booking must occur for the promotion to be applied.</td></tr><tr><td>StayDates</td><td>0..1</td><td>A container for one or more date ranges that determine how the promotion is applied, such as to accommodate seasonal discounts.</td></tr><tr><td>StayDates / @Application</td><td>1</td><td><p>Describes how the promotion should be applied.</p><p>Valid values are:</p><p></p><p>all: Applies the promotion to each night in the itinerary if all dates in the itinerary overlap with the stay dates. </p><p></p><p>any: Applies the promotion to all nights in the itinerary if any date in the itinerary overlaps with a date in the stay dates range. </p><p></p><p>overlap: Applies the promotion only to those nights in the itinerary that overlap with a date in the stay dates range.</p><p></p><p>This attribute must always be specified.</p><p></p><p>If "Discount" specifies percentage and application is set to all or any, the discount is applied as a percentage of the full stay.</p><p></p><p>If "Discount" specifies percentage and application is set to overlap, the discount is applied as a percentage of nightly rates for overlapping nights.</p><p></p><p>"Discount" specifying fixed_amount and application set to overlap is an invalid combination.</p><p></p><p>"FreeNights" supports all application values. Note that for overlap, only overlapping nights of stay are considered for the discount requirements.</p></td></tr><tr><td>StayDates / <a href="./#daterange">DateRange</a></td><td>1..n</td><td><p>A date range specifying dates when the promotion is to be applied.</p><p></p><p>The YearlessDate format is also supported.</p><p></p><p>If one of start or end is a yearless date, both must be populated as yearless dates. Yearless date ranges must not wrap around the new year. Instead, represent the range as two adjacent date ranges. For example, {"12-29", "01-05"} can be represented as {"12-29", "12-31"} and {"01-01", "01-05"}.</p></td></tr><tr><td>BookingWindow</td><td>0..1</td><td>Specifies the time period when booking must occur relative to the check-in date (based on the property's time zone). For example, the booking window can be set to least 7 days, but not more than 180 days, prior to check-in.</td></tr><tr><td>BookingWindow / @Min</td><td>0..1</td><td><p>The minimum duration prior to check-in when booking must occur for the promotion to be applied. If this isn't specified, or its value is 0, there is no minimum.</p><p></p><p>Valid value types are:</p><p></p><p>Integer: The number of days before the check-in date. For example, a value of 30 indicates the promotion only applies to bookings at least 30 days before the check-in date. </p><p></p><p>ISO 8601 Duration (days, hours, and minutes): The number of days (and optionally hours/minutes) before the check-in date. For example, a value of P30D indicates the promotion only applies to bookings at least 30 days before the check-in date. A value of P30DT6H requires booking on or before 18:00 on the 30th day before arrival.</p></td></tr><tr><td>BookingWindow / @Max</td><td>0..1</td><td><p>The maximum number of days prior to check-in when booking must occur for the promotion to be applied. If this isn't specified, or its value is 0, there is no maximum.</p><p></p><p>Valid value types are:</p><p></p><p>Integer: The number of days before the check-in date. For example, a value of 30 indicates the promotion only applies to bookings at most 30 days before the check-in date.</p><p></p><p>ISO 8601 Duration (days, hours, and minutes): The number of days (and optionally hours/minutes) before the check-in date. For example, a value of P30D indicates the promotion only applies to bookings at most 30 days before the check-in date. A value of P30DT6H requires booking on or after 18:00 on the 30th day before arrival.</p></td></tr><tr><td>CheckInDates</td><td>0..1</td><td>A container for one or more date ranges that define when check-in must occur for the promotion to be applied.</td></tr><tr><td>CheckInDates / <a href="./#daterange">DateRange</a></td><td>1..n</td><td><p>A date range specifying when check-out must occur for the promotion to be applied. This element is not required if you're deleting one or more promotions.</p><p></p><p>The YearlessDate format is also supported.</p><p>If one of start or end is a yearless date, both must be populated as yearless dates. Yearless date ranges must not wrap around the new year.</p><p></p><p>Instead, represent the range as two adjacent date ranges. For example, {"12-29", "01-05"} can be represented as {"12-29", "12-31"} and {"01-01", "01-05"}.</p></td></tr><tr><td>Occupancy</td><td>0..1</td><td>Defines restrictions on occupancies for which this promotion is applied. The promotion is not applied when occupancy is outside of the min and max limits.</td></tr><tr><td>Occupancy / @Min</td><td>0..1</td><td>The user-specified occupancy must be at least this value in order for the discount to be applied.</td></tr><tr><td>Occupancy / @Max</td><td>0..1</td><td>The user-specified occupancy must be at most this value in order for the discount to be applied.</td></tr><tr><td>InventoryCount</td><td>0..1</td><td>Defines restrictions on the number of rooms that must be available in order for this promotion to be applied. Discount is applied only to the nights which meet the constraint. Not allowed with the fixed_amount discount. Note that the number of available rooms is specified with either OTA_HotelInvCountNotifRQ (InvCount) or OTA_HotelAvailNotifRQ (BookingLimit).</td></tr><tr><td>InventoryCount / @Min</td><td>0..1</td><td>The minimum number of rooms that must be available for the promotion to be applied to the nightly rate. If this isn't specified, there is no minimum.</td></tr><tr><td>InventoryCount / @Max</td><td>0..1</td><td>The maximum number of rooms that must be available for the promotion to be applied to the nightly rate. If this isn't specified, there is no maximum.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="./#lenghtofstay">LengthOfStay</a></td><td>0..1</td><td>Defines length of stay limits within which this promotion can be applied. The promotion is not applied when length of stay is outside of the min and max limits.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="./#discount">Discount</a></td><td>1</td><td>Specifies the discount to be applied for this promotion.</td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Discount

|                             |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| --------------------------- | ---- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| @percentage                 | 0..1 | <p>A decimal value from 0-100 which specifies the percentage discount.</p><p></p><p>It is applied to AmountAfterTax (or AmountBeforeTax if AmountAfterTax isn't specified).</p>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| @fixed\_amount              | 0..1 | A fixed amount to be subtracted from the sum of the `AmountAfterTax` nightly rates (or sum of `AmountBeforeTax` nightly rates if `AmountAfterTax` isn't specified). It is assumed to be in the same currency as nightly rates. If this is larger than the sum of nightly rates, the resulting value is zero.                                                                                                               |
| @fixed\_amount\_per\_night  | 0..1 | A fixed discount applied to each of the AmountAfterTax nightly rates (or the cheapest N if applied\_nights is specified). If AmountAfterTax isn't specified, it is applied to AmountBeforeTax. It is assumed to be in the same currency as nightly rates. If fixed\_amount\_per\_night is larger than a nightly rate, that nightly rate is reduced to as zero—the discount cannot cause a nightly rate to become negative. |
| [FreeNights](./#freenights) | 0..1 | Specifies a discount on certain nights of a stay when a minimum stay length is met. Attributes on the parent `Discount` element are not allowed if this element is used.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| @AppliedNights              | 0..1 | The number of nights to which the discount is applied, starting with the least expensive. Must be an integer from 1 to 99. If not specified, discount is applied to all nights.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

#### DateRange

<table><thead><tr><th width="296">Element / @Attribute</th><th width="64"></th><th>Description / Format</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>@Start</td><td>0..1</td><td><p>The starting date or datetime (based on the property's time zone), inclusive, of the range.</p><p></p><p>The date or datetime specified by start must be earlier than (or the same as) the date or datetime specified by end.</p><p></p><p>If start isn't specified, the range is effectively unlimited in terms of a start time.</p><p></p><p>If start is populated as date "YYYY-MM-DD", it is interpreted as datetime "YYYY-MM-DDT00:00:00".</p></td></tr><tr><td>@End</td><td>0..1</td><td><p>The ending date or datetime (based on the property's time zone), inclusive, of the range.</p><p>The date or datetime specified by end must be later than (or the same as) the date or datetime specified by start.</p><p></p><p>If end isn't specified, the range is effectively unlimited in terms of an end time.</p><p></p><p>If end is provided as date "YYYY-MM-DD", it is interpreted as datetime "YYYY-MM-DDT23:59:59".</p></td></tr><tr><td>@DaysOfWeek</td><td>0..1</td><td><p>The days of the week that are allowed in the date range. If not specified, all days are allowed in the date range. Each character in the string specifies a day. For example, "MTWHF" specifies that weekdays are allowed in the date range.</p><p>Valid characters are:</p><pre><code>M for Monday
T for Tuesday
W for Wednesday
H for Thursday
F for Friday
S for Saturday
U for Sunday
</code></pre><p>Any character combination is valid.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

#### LenghtOfStay

<table><thead><tr><th width="294">Element / @Attribute</th><th width="66"></th><th>Description / Format</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>@Min</td><td>0..1</td><td>The minimum nights allowed in the stay for the promotion to be applied. If this isn't specified, there is no minimum.</td></tr><tr><td>@Max</td><td>0..1</td><td>The maximum nights allowed in the stay for the promotion to be applied. If this isn't specified, there is no maximum.</td></tr></tbody></table>

#### FreeNights

<table><thead><tr><th width="289">Element / @Attribute</th><th width="66"></th><th>Description / Format</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>@StayNights</td><td>1</td><td><p>Number of required nights for the discount to be applied. Each discount is applied to a separate segment of stay nights.</p><p></p><p>For example, for a 10-night stay where <code>stay_nights</code> is 4 (and <code>repeats</code> is true), then there are two stay night segments: the 1st through 4th nights and the 5th through 8th nights; the 9th and 10th nights are not part of a stay night segment.</p></td></tr><tr><td>@DiscountNights</td><td>1</td><td>The number of discounted nights within each segment of stay nights.</td></tr><tr><td>@Repeats</td><td>1</td><td><p>Whether the discount may be applied to multiple stay night segments. If <code>false</code>, then only the segment of stay nights at the beginning of the itinerary is discounted. If <code>true</code>, then any segment of stay nights is discounted.</p><p></p><p>For example, if <code>stay_nights</code> is 4 and the itinerary is 10 nights, then, if <code>repeats</code> is <code>true</code>, then 2 segments are discounted (nights 1-4 and nights 5-8); but, if <code>repeats</code> is <code>false</code>, then only 1 segment is discounted (nights 1-4).</p></td></tr></tbody></table>
